.TH SNIP 1 "2026-04-14" "snipe-it-cli" "snipe-it-cli Manual"

.SH NAME
snip \- CLI for Snipe-IT (IT asset management)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snip
[\fIglobal-flags\fR] \fIresource\fR \fIverb\fR [\fIflags\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
snipe-it-cli is a command-line tool for operating Snipe-IT IT asset management via the REST API.
Designed primarily for day-to-day infrastructure operations, with support for coding agents.
Use \fB\-\-help\fR on any command for details.

Compatible with Snipe-IT v8.x (API v1).

~150 sub-commands are organized into five categories: CRUD resources, actions,
sub-resource queries, reports/account, and admin operations.

.SH RESOURCES

.SS CRUD Resources (19 kinds)
All resources support \fBlist\fR / \fBget\fR / \fBcreate\fR / \fBupdate\fR / \fBdelete\fR.
.TP
.B assets
IT assets (hardware). API: \fI/api/v1/hardware\fR
.TP
.B users
Users. API: \fI/api/v1/users\fR
.TP
.B licenses
Software licenses. API: \fI/api/v1/licenses\fR
.TP
.B accessories
Accessories. API: \fI/api/v1/accessories\fR
.TP
.B consumables
Consumables. API: \fI/api/v1/consumables\fR
.TP
.B components
Components. API: \fI/api/v1/components\fR
.TP
.B categories
Asset categories. API: \fI/api/v1/categories\fR
.TP
.B companies
Companies. API: \fI/api/v1/companies\fR
.TP
.B locations
Locations. API: \fI/api/v1/locations\fR
.TP
.B manufacturers
Manufacturers. API: \fI/api/v1/manufacturers\fR
.TP
.B models
Device models. API: \fI/api/v1/models\fR
.TP
.B departments
Departments. API: \fI/api/v1/departments\fR
.TP
.B statuslabels
Status labels. API: \fI/api/v1/statuslabels\fR
.TP
.B suppliers
Suppliers. API: \fI/api/v1/suppliers\fR
.TP
.B fieldsets
Custom fieldsets. API: \fI/api/v1/fieldsets\fR
.TP
.B maintenances
Maintenance records. API: \fI/api/v1/maintenances\fR
.TP
.B fields
Custom fields. API: \fI/api/v1/fields\fR
.TP
.B depreciations
Depreciation schedules. API: \fI/api/v1/depreciations\fR
.TP
.B groups
Permission groups. API: \fI/api/v1/groups\fR

Verb flags: \fBlist\fR \-\-filter key=value \-\-limit N \-\-offset N |
\fBget\fR \-\-id N | \fBcreate\fR \-\-data JSON |
\fBupdate\fR \-\-id N \-\-data JSON | \fBdelete\fR \-\-id N \-\-yes

.SS Actions
Resource-specific operations. Calls \fIPOST /api/v1/{resource}/{id}/{action}\fR.
.TP
.B assets
checkout, checkin, audit, restore
.TP
.B licenses
checkout, checkin
.TP
.B accessories
checkout, checkin
.TP
.B consumables
checkout
.TP
.B components
checkout, checkin
.TP
.B manufacturers
restore
.TP
.B models
restore

.SS Sub-resource Queries
Retrieve related data for a resource. Use \-\-id N for the parent resource ID.
.TP
.B assets history / licenses / assigned-assets / assigned-accessories / assigned-components
.TP
.B assets bytag \-\-tag TAG / byserial \-\-serial SERIAL
.TP
.B users assets / licenses / accessories / consumables
.TP
.B licenses history / seats list / seats get \-\-seat-id M / seats update \-\-seat-id M
.TP
.B accessories history / checkedout
.TP
.B consumables history / users
.TP
.B components history / assets
.TP
.B locations users / assets / assigned-assets / assigned-accessories / history
.TP
.B statuslabels assetlist / counts-by-label / counts-by-type
.TP
.B fieldsets fields
.TP
.B maintenances history
.TP
.B models history

.SS Reports and Account
.TP
.B reports activity
Activity log report.
.TP
.B reports depreciation
Depreciation report.
.TP
.B account requestable / requests / request / cancel-request
Asset request workflows.
.TP
.B account eulas / tokens / token-create / token-delete
EULA acceptance and personal access token management.

.SS Admin Operations
.TP
.B labels
Label templates. \fBlist\fR (JSON) + \fBget \-\-name NAME [\-\-output-file PATH]\fR (binary PDF).
.TP
.B imports
Bulk CSV imports. \fBlist / get / update / delete\fR + \fBcreate \-\-file PATH \-\-type TYPE\fR (multipart upload) + \fBprocess \-\-id N\fR.
.TP
.B settings
Server settings. Sub-commands: \fBget\fR, \fBupdate\fR, \fBlogin-attempts\fR, \fBbackups\fR, \fBbackup-download [\-\-name NAME] [\-\-output-file PATH]\fR.
.TP
.B notes
Asset notes. \fBlist \-\-asset-id N\fR / \fBcreate \-\-asset-id N \-\-data JSON\fR.
.TP
.B fields (extra operations)
\fBassociate \-\-id N \-\-fieldset-id M\fR / \fBdisassociate \-\-id N \-\-fieldset-id M\fR / \fBreorder \-\-fieldset-id N \-\-data '[1,2,3]'\fR

.SH BUILT-IN COMMANDS
.TP
.B version
Show snipe-it-cli and Snipe-IT API version.
.EX
snip version
snip version \-o json
.EE
.TP
.B config
Manage Snipe-IT instance configuration.
.EX
snip config init \-\-url URL \-\-token TOKEN [\-\-name NAME]
snip config add NAME \-\-url URL \-\-token TOKEN
snip config list
.EE
.TP
.B completion
Generate shell autocompletion script (bash/zsh/fish/powershell).
.EX
snip completion bash
snip completion zsh
snip completion fish
snip completion powershell
.EE

.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# Basic CRUD
snip assets list \-\-filter status_id=2
snip assets get \-\-id 123
snip assets create \-\-data '{"name":"Laptop-001","asset_tag":"A-001","model_id":1,"status_id":2}'
snip assets update \-\-id 123 \-\-data '{"status_id":3}'
snip assets delete \-\-id 123 \-\-yes

# Actions
snip assets checkout \-\-id 123 \-\-data '{"checkout_to_type":"user","assigned_user":1}'
snip assets checkin  \-\-id 123
snip assets restore  \-\-id 123

# Sub-resource queries
snip assets history \-\-id 123
snip assets bytag \-\-tag ASSET-001
snip assets byserial \-\-serial SN12345
snip users assets \-\-id 5
snip licenses seats list \-\-id 10
snip locations assigned-assets \-\-id 2

# Reports and account
snip reports activity
snip account requestable
snip account request \-\-id 42

# Admin operations
snip imports create \-\-file assets.csv \-\-type hardware
snip imports process \-\-id 3
snip notes list \-\-asset-id 123
snip notes create \-\-asset-id 123 \-\-data '{"note":"Battery replaced"}'
snip labels get \-\-name barcode \-\-output-file label.pdf
snip settings backup-download \-\-output-file backup.zip

# Agent/script usage
snip assets list \-o json
snip assets list \-o 'custom-columns=ID:.id,NAME:.name,STATUS:.status_label.name'
snip assets list \-o 'jsonpath={rows.#.name}'
.EE

.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-url string
Snipe-IT URL (env: \fBSNIPEIT_URL\fR)
.TP
.B \-\-token string
API token (env: \fBSNIPEIT_TOKEN\fR)
.TP
.B \-\-timeout int
Timeout in seconds, default 30 (env: \fBSNIPEIT_TIMEOUT\fR)
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output string
Output format: table (default) / json / yaml / custom-columns=... / jsonpath=... (env: \fBSNIPEIT_OUTPUT\fR)
.TP
.B \-\-profile string
Instance name to use (falls back to SNIPE_PROFILE env, then config file current)
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Show operational INFO logs (API calls being made)
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Show debug logs (HTTP requests/responses; Authorization header is redacted)

.SH CONFIGURATION
Config file: \fB~/.config/snipe-it-cli/config.yaml\fR (XDG: \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/snipe-it-cli/config.yaml\fR)
.PP
The config file must have mode \fB0600\fR. A warning is shown if the permissions are too open,
as the file contains the API token.
.PP
.EX
current: prod
instances:
  prod:
    url: https://snip.example.com
    token: your-api-token
  staging:
    url: https://staging.example.com
    token: stg-api-token
timeout: 30     # optional (default: 30)
output: table   # optional (default: table)
.EE
.PP
Config management:
.EX
snip config init \-\-url https://snip.example.com \-\-token YOUR_TOKEN
snip config add staging \-\-url https://staging.example.com \-\-token STG_TOKEN
snip config list
.EE
.PP
Instance switching (AWS CLI style):
.EX
export SNIPE_PROFILE=staging   # per session
snip \-\-profile staging ...    # per command
.EE
.PP
Precedence: \fBCLI flags > env vars (SNIPEIT_URL, etc.) > config file > defaults\fR
.br
Profile resolution: \fB\-\-profile flag > SNIPE_PROFILE env > current\fR

.SH SHELL COMPLETION
.EX
# Bash
echo 'source <(snip completion bash)' >> ~/.bashrc

# Zsh
echo 'source <(snip completion zsh)' >> ~/.zshrc

# Fish
snip completion fish > ~/.config/fish/completions/snip.fish
.EE

.SH SEE ALSO
.B snip \-\-help\fR,
.B snip <resource> \-\-help\fR,
.B snip <resource> <verb> \-\-help
